content/jlpt.md, before:

---
title: Tobias Schlicht
subtitle: Just some human
author-url: "https://github.com/tobschli"
lang: en
---


# Current journey

I have signed up to take the JLPT N2 test this December, for which I need a lot of studying to go in every single day.
The most significant habits I have developed for this are:

- Entering new vocabulary (from a vocabulary list)
- Reviewing vocabulary using Anki

## My stats

For these daily habits, I want to share some of my stats here, which I try to keep up-to-date regularly.
Keep in mind, these are just _my_ numbers. I would not call myself a particularly fast learner regarding languages, so bear with me here please.

Every morning I wake up and go to entering new vocab into Anki. I take the next `20` of my list and enter them. 
Some of them I already know, or are just english loan-words, which I skip straight-ahead.
This whole process usually takes `35 - 50` minutes depending on the words complexity and abstractness.

<figure>

These are the stats of the amount of cards I enter each day, over the last `30` days

<pre>
<!--NEW_GRAPH-->
</pre>
</figure>


<figure>

And these are the stats of how long I take for reviewing cards every day, over the last `30` days

<pre>
<!--REVIEW_GRAPH-->
</pre>
</figure>

# My setup

I trust my heart and soul into the effectiveness of Anki.
If you do not know about Anki and are currently studying, be it in school or on your own, I cannot stress enough what a game-changer Anki was for me.
At this point I do not want to go into much detail about what Anki is and how to use it, as there are thousands of better resources out there. (I will add them here soon)

For vocabulary, I tried sticking to the method of the [_Fluent Forever_](https://fluentforeverbook.com/) book.
This means, for every new vocab, I enter:

- Kanji
- Reading
- 2 sample sentences
- 2 images that go along those sentences
- pronounciation in the form of an audio file

Commit message:

Update language journey; removed new cards stats

content/jlpt.md, after:

---
title: Tobias Schlicht
subtitle: Just some human
author-url: "https://github.com/tobschli"
lang: en
---


# Current journey

I have signed up to take the JLPT N2 test December 2025, for which I needed a lot of studying to go in every single day.
The most significant habits I have developed for this are:

- Entering new vocabulary (from a vocabulary list)
- Reviewing vocabulary using Anki

After I took the test, I completely dropped entering new cards, as I am still very much in the process of internalizing the current ones I entered.

I think it will take a lot of time until I am through with all of them.

## My stats

For these daily habits, I want to share some of my stats here, which I try to keep up-to-date regularly.
Keep in mind, these are just _my_ numbers. I would not call myself a particularly fast learner regarding languages, so bear with me here please.

Every morning I used to wake up and go to entering new vocab into Anki. I took the next `20` of my list and entered them. 
Some of them I already knew, or are just english loan-words, which I skipped straight-ahead.
This whole process usually took `35 - 50` minutes depending on the words complexity and abstractness.

These are the stats of how long I take for reviewing cards every day, over the last `30` days

<pre>
<!--REVIEW_GRAPH-->
</pre>
</figure>

## Results

I took the test, but I still have mixed feelings whether I passed it or not.
Once the results are out, I will update this page :)

# My setup

I trust my heart and soul into the effectiveness of Anki.
If you do not know about Anki and are currently studying, be it in school or on your own, I cannot stress enough what a game-changer Anki was for me.
At this point I do not want to go into much detail about what Anki is and how to use it, as there are thousands of better resources out there. (I will add them here soon)

For vocabulary, I tried sticking to the method of the [_Fluent Forever_](https://fluentforeverbook.com/) book.
This means, for every new vocab, I enter:

- Kanji
- Reading
- 2 sample sentences
- 2 images that go along those sentences
- pronounciation in the form of an audio file
